# Kubernetes Monitoring and Init Containers

## Components of the Kube Prometheus Stack 

 - `Grafana` - is free tool for displaying the collected metrics on dashboard 
 - `Prometheus Operator` - simplify and automate the configuration of a Prometheus
 - `Prometheus` - responsible for metric collection from various sources.  
 - `Prometheus node-exporter` - gathers and transmits OS and hardware metrics to Prometheus.
 - `Prometheus Adapter for Kubernetes Metrics APIs` - permits the gathering of Kubernetes metrics
 - `kube-state-metrics` - service that produces application metrics while listening to the Kubernetes API server.
 - `Alertmanager`- Alert delivery service

```shell
$ kubectl get po,sts,svc,pvc,cm
NAME                                                      READY   STATUS              RESTARTS         AGE
pod/app-go-8666b999c9-94tpt                               0/1     CrashLoopBackOff    253 (4m4s ago)   27d
pod/app-python-964d5d6cf-2qzqr                            0/1     CrashLoopBackOff    215 (4m5s ago)   27d
pod/go-app-6f8cbb79b9-2sz46                               1/1     Running             7 (5h19m ago)    28d
pod/monitoring-grafana-6f8d546676-tbwgm                   0/3     ContainerCreating   0                2m5s
pod/monitoring-kube-prometheus-operator-5fbb66b4b-h97zj   0/1     ContainerCreating   0                2m5s
pod/monitoring-kube-state-metrics-74f4d8858f-c2f9v        0/1     ContainerCreating   0                2m5s
pod/monitoring-prometheus-node-exporter-cv82d             1/1     Running             0                2m5s
pod/python-app-7db595cff-zhd74                            1/1     Running             7 (5h19m ago)    28d

NAME                                              TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE
service/app-go                                    ClusterIP   10.100.178.49    <none>        80/TCP              27d
service/app-python                                ClusterIP   10.101.171.209   <none>        80/TCP              27d
service/go-app                                    ClusterIP   10.98.118.137    <none>        8081/TCP            28d
service/kubernetes                                ClusterIP   10.96.0.1        <none>        443/TCP             34d
service/monitoring-grafana                        ClusterIP   10.111.121.190   <none>        80/TCP              2m5s
service/monitoring-kube-prometheus-alertmanager   ClusterIP   10.101.171.127   <none>        9093/TCP,8080/TCP   2m5s
service/monitoring-kube-prometheus-operator       ClusterIP   10.100.124.81    <none>        443/TCP             2m5s
service/monitoring-kube-prometheus-prometheus     ClusterIP   10.106.5.220     <none>        9090/TCP,8080/TCP   2m5s
service/monitoring-kube-state-metrics             ClusterIP   10.105.90.221    <none>        8080/TCP            2m5s
service/monitoring-prometheus-node-exporter       ClusterIP   10.106.83.186    <none>        9100/TCP            2m5s
service/python-app                                ClusterIP   10.99.91.60      <none>        8080/TCP            28d

NAME                                                                     DATA   AGE
configmap/kube-root-ca.crt                                               1      34d
configmap/monitoring-grafana                                             1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-grafana-config-dashboards                           1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-alertmanager-overview               1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-apiserver                           1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-cluster-total                       1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-controller-manager                  1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-etcd                                1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-grafana-datasource                  1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-grafana-overview                    1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-coredns                         1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-resources-cluster               1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-resources-multicluster          1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-resources-namespace             1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-resources-node                  1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-resources-pod                   1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-resources-workload              1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-k8s-resources-workloads-namespace   1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-kubelet                             1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-namespace-by-pod                    1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-namespace-by-workload               1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-node-cluster-rsrc-use               1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-node-rsrc-use                       1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-nodes                               1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-nodes-darwin                        1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-persistentvolumesusage              1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-pod-total                           1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-prometheus                          1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-proxy                               1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-scheduler                           1      2m5s
configmap/monitoring-kube-prometheus-workload-total                      1      2m5s
```